# Dashboard-and-Data-analysis-using-IOT-Application
In this era of digitization and automation, the life of human beings is getting simpler as almost everything is automatic, replacing the old manual systems. Nowadays humans have made internet an integral part of their everyday life without which they are helpless. Internet of things (IoT) provides a platform that allows devices to connect, sense and control remotely across a network infrastructure. In this paper we focus on home automation using IOT. The IOT devices controls and monitors the electronic, electrical and the mechanical systems used in various types of buildings. The devices connected to the cloud server are controlled by a single admin which facilitate a number of users to which a number of sensor and control nodes are connected. The admin can access and control all the nodes connected to each user but a single user can control only the nodes to which the user itself is connected. This whole system using Internet of Things (iot) will allow mobile devices and computers to remotely control all the functions and features of home appliances from anywhere around the world using the internet connection. The system designed is economical and can be expanded as it allows connection and controlling of a number of different devices. Advancement in technology has not only transformed our life but also extended in every sphere of our way of living. Most of the electronic devices are manually monitored on regular basis to ensure the optimal operation. To install new application specific devices not only increases the cost but also replaces the old device. Here we propose a system, which can monitor and schedule any old electronic device through a mobile application and its operation can be optimized by saving time and energy.
